[THEME MUSIC]
>>GREGG BRADEN: My
name is Gregg Braden.
And I'd like to welcome you to
this very special presentation
of "Missing Links," the deep
truth of our origin, history,
destiny, and fate.
In our last episode,
we saw the experiments
that confirm in
the laboratory what
ancient and indigenous
traditions have told us
for thousands of years,
that we are literally
wired to communicate
with our body for health
and self-healing.
Well, in this episode
what I'd like to do
is go beyond the
laboratory, beyond theory,
to see this quantum link applied
in the most intimate levels
of life and community.
So to illustrate
this point, I'd like
to share with you a story--
it's a deeply personal story
for me-- about a time in my
life when I was first exposed
to this quantum
possibility and what
it means for us
on an individual,
on a personal level.
My home is in the high deserts
of northern New Mexico.
It's one of the most beautiful,
amazing places remaining
in the world today.
It is very clean,
pristine, and it
is the home for a number
of indigenous communities.
And it was in the early 1990s
that an indigenous friend
of mine called me on
the phone and asked me
if I wanted to join
him to pray rain
in a very, very specific
place in the high deserts
of northern New Mexico.
So a little background
here-- in the early 1990s,
one of the worst droughts in the
history of all of the American
Desert Southwest was happening.
It had been over five years
since a significant regional
rainfall had happened.
So at a pre-determined
time on a very special day,
we met, and we hiked
across 135,000 acres
of the most beautiful,
fragrant, high-altitude sage
that you can imagine,
until we came
to a place very similar to what
you're seeing on the screen
right now.
And to protect the privacy and
the integrity of my friend's
traditions, we're not
showing the actual site,
and I want to be very
honest with you about that.
But it was a medicine wheel
that looked very similar to what
you're seeing right now.
And this medicine
wheel, he said to me,
this wheel has been here
for so long we don't even
know who built this.
But every stone of
this medicine wheel
is in precisely the place
where our ancestors placed it
and where we maintain
it year after year
after year, generation after
generation after generation.
And I asked my friend--
and to protect his privacy,
I'm going to call him David.
That's not his real name.
Now, I asked David,
why this place?
What's so special
about this place?
Why is the medicine wheel here?
And he said, this
is a place where
the skin between the
worlds is very thin--
where the skin between
the worlds is very thin.
So he was referring to
the veil that we sometimes
feel separates us in this
world from the possibilities
of other worlds.
So for whatever reason,
whatever anomaly,
whether it's a magnetic anomaly
or a gravitational anomaly
or a climactic
anomaly, his ancestors
had found that this
place was very effective
for the time of prayers.
So I found myself on that
day with this medicine
wheel with my friend David at
the crack between the worlds
during one of the worst droughts
in the history of the American
Desert Southwest.
My ears had heard him
invite me to pray for rain.
That's not what happened.
And without the understanding
of the previous episodes, what
I say next probably
wouldn't make much sense,
but we have the benefit
of those episodes.
So let me now share with
you exactly what happened.
I wasn't prepared
for what I saw next.
My friend David sat in
the dirt next to me.
He unlaced the shoes
of his old work boots.
And he stepped into
the medicine wheel
with just his naked
feet on the ground.
And he closed his eyes.
He carried a prayer
mudra in front of him,
just for a few seconds--
just for a few seconds.
And then he turned around,
and he looked at me.
And he said, I'm hungry.
I'm going to go for lunch.
And I said, sure.
I said, we can go for lunch.
But I said, I thought
you invited me here
to pray for rain.
And this is when he
turned and looked at me,
and what he said
changed my life.
It changed my
perspective and the way
I think about my
relationship to the world.
I'm going to share it
with you, and maybe it
will change yours as well.
Here's what he said.
I said, I thought
you prayed for rain.
And he said, no.
He said, if I prayed for
rain, rain could never happen.
Because the moment
we ask for something
to happen in this world,
in the asking for,
we are affirming that
it does not exist now.
I'm going to invite you
to think about that.
When we ask the
universe for something,
we are implying that whatever
we're asking for or asking
about or asking to appear
or asking to happen
is not present in the moment.
And in that way, we
are actually affirming
in the field the very thing
that we were hoping to change.
I hope that makes sense.
The quantum field that we talked
about in the last episode,
if you recall, it is the
container for all things.
It is the bridge between
us and the world,
between what happens in here
and what happens out there.
And it is the mirror in
our world for what we
claim to be true in our hearts.
So if you think about that,
it makes perfect sense
if you're asking for
rain, as I thought
my friend David was going to
do, if he asked that, then
the field interprets that
as him asking for no rain,
because the rain is not there.
So I looked at him,
and I said, David,
if you didn't pray
for rain right now,
what did you just do?
And he said, when
I closed my eyes,
I felt the feeling as if the
rain has already happened.
I felt the feeling
of what it feels
like, he said, to stand
in my Pueblo village
with my naked feet in
the mud, and the mud
is there because there's
been so much rain.
He said, I smelled
the smells of what
it smells like when the rain
rolls off of the earthen
walls of our Pueblo homes.
He said, I felt
the feeling of what
it feels like when I walk
through the fields of corn that
are this high against
my naked chest.
And they're this high because
there's been so much rain.
He said, I felt
the feeling of what
it feels like when my
prayer is already answered.
And then, I give thanks for
what has already happened.
He said, in those few
seconds, I felt the feelings
and I gave thanks for the rain
that has already occurred.
This is a very, very
powerful story to me.
And it illustrates
a quantum principle.
Because there is
a huge difference
between working toward an
outcome and beginning as if
the outcome is already present.
I'm going to invite you
to think about that.
When I was a young
boy growing up
in a rural community in northern
Missouri, I spent a lot of time
working in a farm environment,
in a rural environment,
baling hay, mending
fences, training bird dogs,
feeding cows, all
those kinds of things.
I'd get cuts and bruises on my
hands, my legs all the time.
And I remember my mom
would always say to me--
and it was very
well-intentioned.
But she'd say, the
healing will happen slowly
over a long period of time.
She said, it will heal a little
bit today and a little bit
tomorrow, a little
bit the next day,
until pretty soon it's all gone.
And if we embrace that,
if we think that way,
if we accept that, that
is precisely the way
the healing happens.
This is a linear way of
thinking about the world.
And I'm not saying it's
right, wrong, good, or bad,
because there are
times in our lives
we definitely want
to think linear, OK?
If you're working on an assembly
line at an auto factory,
and you're putting
together the car
that I might drive later in that
year, I want you to be linear.
I want you to do everything
step by step by step,
working toward the goal.
When the scientists
designed the Apollo capsules
to take a human to the moon and
back, it was a linear process,
step by step, each one
building on the last.
So I'm making a
distinction here.
There are times when it's good
to think linear and good to act
in a linear way.
But we have just discovered,
science is telling us,
we are not bound by the
linear laws of physics
as we know them today and
that we have the ability
to be in both worlds.
And when it comes
to our healing,
there's a huge difference
between working
toward the healing and
coming from the outcome
that the healing
has already happened
or, in the case of my friend
David, coming from the outcome
that the rain has
already appeared.
Well we went into the nearest
town, Taos, New Mexico,
we had lunch that day.
And by the time I came
back on to my property
later that afternoon,
something began
to happen that we had not
seen for a very long time.
Big, black clouds were rolling
in over the Sangre de Cristo
Mountains.
And it started to
rain that afternoon.
And it rained and
rained and rained.
It rained all afternoon.
It rained all night.
It rained all the next morning.
It was a mess.
There was so much rain,
the roads were flooded.
The fields were flooded.
Cattle were stranded.
Crops that remained were
ruined, because the ground
had been so dry it couldn't
accept all the rain.
And I called my friend
David on the phone.
And I said, David,
this is a mess.
I said, what in the
world is going on?
I said it has rained since I
saw you yesterday afternoon.
It hasn't stopped.
And he was quiet
just for a moment.
And then he said
to me on the phone,
he said, Gregg, that's
the part of the prayer
that the elders could
never describe to me.
They couldn't tell me
how to stop the rain.
They told me how
to get it started,
but I never learned
how much to make
and when to tell it to stop.
So I'm sharing this story
now for a couple of reasons.
And one of those reasons is
because I cannot say to you
as a scientist, I cannot
prove as a scientist,
that David's prayer had anything
to do with the rain that
happened.
I have to say that there
is a high correlation--
a high correlation-- between
the time that prayer was offered
and when the rain
happened, a rain that
had not happened in that
way for five years previous.
We have to say as scientists,
there's a high correlation.
Because science is
not at the place
yet where they can embrace
the mechanism, the cause
and the effect.
Well, I watched
the news that night
in that part of New Mexico.
We were able to pull
in the TV stations
from parts of Colorado,
southern Colorado,
and parts of
northern New Mexico.
And I remember the weatherman
on the Colorado station,
and he showed the weather map.
And he showed a
low-pressure system coming
across northern Colorado.
And right about
the time of Denver,
this low-pressure system
dropped and made a loop right
around northern New Mexico where
we were and came right back up.
And that low pressure is
what brought the rain.
And I remember the weatherman.
He stepped back, and he looked
at that very unusual-looking
pattern where the pressure
system just dropped.
And all he said was, huh.
That was all he said.
Because he couldn't
explain what was happening.
So I'm sharing this with
you from a perspective
of everyday life,
indigenous traditions,
what they have learned
in their lives,
and how they apply
quantum principles,
without using that term, in a
very real way in their lives.
And what science has shown
us is that high pressure
systems and low pressure
systems, climate systems,
respond to magnetic fields.
The strongest biomagnetic
field in the human body
is not in the brain.
It's in the heart.
The heart is literally
hundreds of times
stronger magnetically
than the brain is.
So I'm not surprised at the
feeling, embracing the feeling
that the rain has
already happened,
would create at least a
localized effect, rain
over a particular village
or maybe rain in a valley.
But I've never seen it
happen on a regional scale
like I did with my friend David.
So this is an example.
Again, it's not scientific.
But it's real life.
And it opened my eyes to the
possibility of quantum prayer,
where we began the
prayer from the ending.
We begin at the
place where we would
like the prayer to complete.
And I know that concept,
and if you're taking notes
and you're writing this down,
it sounds very academic.
What I'd like to do
with you now that we've
shared these experiences
and that you've
seen how the field works
and the role that it plays,
I want to take this all out
of the realm of academia,
and I want to bring this
into something real,
concrete, tangible, awesome,
profound, paradigm-shattering,
and something that, once you
see, you will always remember.
You'll never forget what
you're going to see next.
So to do this, I'm going
to share another story.
This is the story of
a healing modality
that was developed 500 years ago
in the highlands of the Tibetan
Plateau.
It is a tradition that is
very well known and accepted
in some parts of the
Asian communities,
particularly in the
medicine-less hospitals.
They are called
"medicine-less hospitals,"
almost like an oxymoron
that we see in Tibet.
And I've had the opportunity
over the period of 10 years-- I
took a number of
groups into Tibet,
I've seen these
medicine less hospitals.
And they're in other
parts of China as well.
And there is not only one.
It is a tradition of
medicine-less healing.
Because many of
the people there,
they simply don't
have health insurance.
They don't have access
to the high-tech gadgets
that many of us have in the
Western world on the one hand.
On the other hand, they need
to address the health issues
that they have.
So it was in a medicine-less
hospital where a man I know
created a video, a film, that
documents quantum healing,
a quantum healing that
happens all the time
in their part of the world.
But he documented it
on film to share it
in our part of the world.
And I'm going to be
very clear about this.
He didn't create the film to
advertise for the hospital
or to advertise for a
clinic or for the tradition
that he is teaching.
He created this film,
and I'm sharing with you,
to illustrate a potential,
a possibility, that
is so very different from
what we are led to believe
in our lives and in our world.
If you remember back to that
inverted pyramid of thinking,
the perennial
questions of science,
and the scientific assumption--
the false scientific
assumption-- that we are
separate from our bodies
and that we're separate from
the world around our bodies
and that we have
little if any influence
when it comes to us
feeling a feeling
and affecting the
physical world.
For that reason, what
you're about to see
has been very
difficult for Western
practitioners, Western doctors,
Western researchers to see.
A friend of mine
spent a lot of money
through a very
well-known organization
and went through a lot
of time investigating
alternative
modalities of healing
and published a beautiful
hard-bound volume invalidating
those modalities of healing.
And it was after
that volume had been
published I had the opportunity
to visit with this friend.
And I said, would you
like to see one more
that you haven't written about?
And I shared the video
that you're going
to see here in just a moment.
And I have to say, that friend
doesn't talk to me very much
anymore.
Because what I shared in the
film was completely different
from all the conclusions
this scientist
had come to in
the research paper
because they have never
allowed for the possibility
of the connection that
you now understand.
They've never allowed
for the possibility
of the field and
our relationship
to the field and our
ability to influence matter
through the field from the
power of human emotions,
the very emotions that have
been largely discounted
in the modern world,
in the Western world.
So the film that
you're about to see
was created in one of these
medicine-less hospitals
in China.
And let me just set this up a
little bit before we actually
see the film.
In these traditional
hospitals, people
don't have access, as I
mentioned, to high-tech gadgets
and scanners and surgery.
So a lot of what happens
in terms of their healing
is done through
traditional methods.
And traditionally,
prayer has been
a very powerful form of healing
in this part of the world.
So I want to be really
clear about this.
It's not that people walk
into a clinic with a problem
and they say, you know, I've
got lunch in 20 minutes.
Can you fix me so I
can get to my lunch?
It's not like that.
To go through one
of these clinics
and to undergo the kind of
healing you're about to see,
there's a preparation.
People are taught to change
their diet-- it's not
a surprise-- to change
their diet into really
healthy forms of raw, organic
nutrients that come to them.
They've traditionally
been organic
in this part of the world,
long before there were ever
any pesticides or GMOs
or anything like that.
But they're taught
even more than that.
They're taught about physical
movement, very specific kinds
of physical movement, forms such
as Qigong where we are moving
energy in our bodies in
very, very specific, very
precise kinds of ways.
They're taught to
change the way they
feel about themselves,
their thoughts, feelings,
and emotions.
Because those qualities are
reflected within their bodies.
So they undergo a
process of where
they are educated to begin
to think, feel, and live
in a very different
way from the way
they were thinking, living,
and feeling before that led
to whatever condition it is that
they have within their bodies.
And once they have
done that, once they've
achieved that
successfully, then it
may make sense to
undergo the experience
that you're about to see.
So the woman that you're
going to see in this healing
has gone to the traditional
medicine-less hospital.
She was diagnosed with a bladder
tumor that is inoperable, OK?
So she had gone to a big city,
and the doctors had told her,
we can't help you.
And she said, thank
you for your opinion.
I'm going to go back into
the traditions that I know.
She is in the clinic, she
is awake, she is conscious,
she is not anesthetized.
She believes in what's
about to happen to her.
She embraces what's
And she willingly
accepts the healing
that's coming to her body.
And I'm saying this to
you because people ask me
all the time, does
the person receiving
have to believe in
what's happening?
And you're going to
see the answer to that.
The short answer is the effect
is there no matter what.
Whether the effect
remains, whether it lasts,
is determined by whether
or not the person
is willing to embrace
everything that they've learned,
the new ways of living to
supporting and nurturing life
within their bodies.
So she is conscious.
She's not anesthetized.
There are three practitioners
who are standing near her.
They are trained
in the techniques.
This is an inner technology.
It is a form of Qigong.
It is a form of breathing and
moving energy into the body
and sharing that energy
with another human body.
And what makes this film
especially significant
is there's another
person in the room.
It is a technician
with an old ultrasound,
an old-fashioned monitor
that has a split screen.
So on that split screen, we can
see two images simultaneously.
The left side of
the image is going
to be a snapshot, a freeze
frame, the before image of what
it is they're dealing with.
The right side you're
going to see real time.
So this isn't a
before-and-after photograph.
I want you to see real time
how real this relationship--
your relationship-- with
the quantum field can be.
So on the right
side of the screen,
you're going to see
real time the condition
that she's been
diagnosed with disappear.
And it disappears in two
minutes and 40 seconds.
And it's real time.
This isn't a time lapse like
on a nature channel, where
you see a rosebud
open in 10 seconds
but it's something that
happens over two days.
That's not what this is.
This is real time
you're actually
going to see this happen.
At the same time, you're going
to hear the practitioners
saying a chant.
And I'm almost reluctant
to use that word,
but it is a word
that they are using,
because of the connotations.
I want to be clear
about this as well.
There's no magic word that
is making the healing happen.
The chant is a word that they
have agreed among themselves
reinforces the power of
the energy that is moving
through their bodies, OK?
So that chant that they are
saying, you're going to hear,
loosely translates
into "already done."
It's already healed.
Wa-sa.
Loosely translates.
my Chinese may not be precise.
But the point is, they
are coming from the place
that the woman is
already healed.
They are feeling the feeling
as if she is already healed.
They are claiming and
creating an energetic pattern
of an already-healed,
fully-healed, fully-enabled,
fully-capacitated woman
rather than buying
into the illusion of
the tumor that she
has temporarily in that moment.
With that, let's take
a look at this film.
I'm going to play it
all the way through,
and then we'll talk about it.
And we're going to take
this one step further.
So if you watch on
your monitor, watch
on the screen, what
you're going to see
is the film and the
narration of the man who
actually made this film.
>> --years, the center has
successfully treated more than
180 types of illnesses,
including bladder cancer.
>>GREGG: OK, so you can see
the practitioners behind.
You can see the ultrasound,
the sonogram technician.
There's the woman's tummy.
It's exposed.
She obviously is awake.
OK, and here's the
split-screen monitor.
On the left side is the snapshot
that I was talking about,
a freeze frame in
the moment in time.
And the blackness is the
emptiness of the bladder.
The lump is the tumor.
In the curve is the
floor of the bladder.
On the right-hand
side, now you're
going to see the real-time
image of the tumor, OK?
And what I'm inviting you to
do now, what you want to do,
is watch and compare what's
happening on the right side
real time with the
before image on the left.
>> [CHANTING IN CHINESE]
[APPLAUSE]
>>GREGG: When we see
something like this happen,
we call it a miracle.
It's only a miracle
until we understand
what has just happened.
Then it becomes a technology,
an inner technology.
And I realize that when you
see something like this,
it means different things
to different people.
And not everyone is open
to this kind of technology.
In the year 2000, my
mother was diagnosed
with cancer in her lung.
And she knew about my work,
she had seen this film,
and I talked my mom.
And I said, how do
you feel about this?
She said, Gregg, I know that
these things are possible,
and I know that you believe it.
She said, for me, I just need
to know that this tumor is gone.
She said, I need to know that
it's no longer in my body,
and that will free me to
make the changes in my life
so that I never have
this experience again.
So in knowing that that
tumor was no longer there,
she chose to undergo
conventional surgery.
And when she came out of
that surgery, in her mind,
knowing the tumor was
no longer in her body,
freed her to experience
a new lifestyle.
She began to exercise.
She changed her diet.
She began to think
differently about herself.
And to this day, so 16 years
later, she is cancer-free.
And I honored that for, her
because that was her choice.
Not everyone is a candidate
for this kind of healing.
However, for those that
are, what I'm saying
is it's something
that we participate in
rather than having done to us.
That woman participated
in all of the preparation
before she was willing to
accept that shift in her body.
And the question
is-- I get questions
all the time about what we've
just seen-- does it last?
As I mentioned, it
will last if she
can embrace the
changes she's been
invited to make in her body.
Did it take three technicians?
Did there have to be
three technicians there?
And when I asked the gentleman
that created the film
and I asked him this
question, I said, did there
need to be three practitioners?
He said, Gregg, it's a
very interesting question,
and here's the answer.
In truth, he said,
one practitioner
could have done it.
He said, but there's
something about us humans.
We feel more empowered
when we are surrounded
by others that think as we do.
And one of the places where
that becomes very apparent
is in a healing like this.
So the question is, what did
those practitioners just do?
Well, we've already
opened the door
to this answer in
my story of David
and my story about
the difference
between working
toward an outcome
and beginning with the outcome.
As I mentioned, there is
a very powerful difference
between working from the
place that the healing,
or whatever the outcome
is, if it's a relationship,
if it's a job, if
it's a career, if it's
rain in the desert,
whatever it is,
there's a powerful difference
between working toward that
and coming from the place that
already exists in your life.
And this is not a new idea.
So I'm going to shift
gears just a little bit,
and I'm going to go back
into one of our most
ancient and cherished
spiritual traditions,
where we were given the
instructions for what you
have just seen in that film.
We were literally
given the instructions.
I think it's probably no
surprise to most of our viewers
that the modern Bible
as we see it today,
as a historical text-- I'm not
talking about religion-- just
as a document of
history, that that Bible
has undergone some revisions.
And one of the big revisions
was in the fourth century
AD, or now Common Era, CE--
the fourth century, when
about 42 or 43
books were removed
during the time of the
emperor Constantine,
or they were
condensed, rearranged,
and translated in
a way that appears
as we see those books today.
The question is, what did
we lose in those 43 books?
Well, we don't have to
ask without the answer.
Because in the 1940s, 1947,
1948, right around in there,
amazing discoveries
in the Middle East
revealed the oldest records of
the books that had been edited,
the Dead Sea Scrolls and
the Nag Hammadi library,
the Dead Sea Scrolls
from the Old Testament,
the Nag Hammadi library
from the New Testament.
And in the Nag Hammadi library
in the Gospel of Thomas,
we actually find the
instructions for the healing
that you've just seen.
I know that you've
heard this before.
You've heard the axiom,
ask and you shall
receive, that your joy be full.
You've also heard
that sometimes things
are lost in the translation.
And this is one of those places.
Because when we go back and
translate the original Aramaic
of "ask and ye shall receive,"
here's what the text says.
And I'm going to read
this to you directly.
The text says, "Ask
without hidden motive,
and be surrounded
by your answer.
Be enveloped by what you
desire, your gladness be full."
When we be surrounded
with our answer
and be enveloped
by our desire, that
is us being in the presence
of the outcome of our prayer
as if it has already happened.
So now you know how this kind
of quantum healing occurs.
The key-- I'm just
going to summarize
very quickly for you-- is
to feel as if your prayer is
already answered, is if
your body is already healed,
as if your perfect
relationship is already here,
as if your abundance
is already present.
And when you feel, invoke
all of your senses,
just like David did in the rain.
In that way, we embrace quantum
prayer in our everyday lives
and we move from a
miracle to a technology.
In our next segment, we'll
zero in on the new evidence
of human origins that tell us
now precisely why this quantum
prayer is possible for us
and no other form of life
and why it is now time for
a new story of our past.
I want to thank you for
joining me for this program.
And I'm going to
invite you to be sure
and tune in for
next, all-new episode
of "Missing Links," the deep
truth of our origin, history,
destiny, and fate.
[THEME MUSIC]